
# Veckouppgift 5.2.4  

---

## 4  

Betrakta funktionen `is_sorted_ascending(numbers)`.  
Den ska returnera True om listan numbers är sorterad i 
stigande ordning, False annars.  

4a.  
Vilka ekvivalensklasser har numbers?  

4b.  
Formulera krav och acceptanskriterier för funktionen.  

4c.  
Skriv testfall för funktionen.  

---

### 4a  

The equivalence classes that numbers have are all numbers 
sorted in ascending order.  

---

### 4b  


>  
> req_001  
> Shall be able to handle if other than a list of numbers is 
> used as input.
> 
>> ac_001  
>> If other than list of numbers is used as input, shall return 
>> `None`.
>> 1. `int`
>> 2. `float`
>> 3. `str`
>> 4. `tuple`
>> 5. `list including non numbers`
>  


>  
> req_002  
> Shall be able to handle an empty input list.
> 
>> ac_002  
>> If empty list input, return `None`.
>  


>  
> req_003  
> A list of numbers shall be possible to contain different types 
> and values and still return `True` or `False`.
> 
>> ac_003  
>> It shall be possible to use rational and irrational numbers, 
>> though imaginary (complex) numbers excluded, when checking the 
>> list.
>> 1. `int`
>> 2. `float`
>> 3. `potitive numbers`
>> 4. `negative numbers`
>  


>  
> req_004  
> A list of numbers shall be checked if sorted in ascending 
> order or not.
> 
>> ac_004  
>> A list of numbers as input shall be checked if it is sorted 
>> in ascending order, if so return `True`.
>> If not, return `False`.
>> 1. `List of numbers in ascending order`
>> 2. `List of numbers not in ascending order`
>  

---

Student == **_gnoff_**  

---

Copyright 2026 gnoff

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");  
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.  
You may obtain a copy of the License at  

     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software  
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,  
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or 
implied.  
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and  
limitations under the License.

---
