
# Veckouppgift 5.2.3  

---

3a.  
Betrakta funktionen `find_median(numbers)`, som tar en lista med tal 
och returnerar medianen.  
Median är det mittersta talet, t.ex. är medianen 2 för listan 
[1, 2, 1000].  
Om listan har jämnt antal element ska funktionen returnera 
medelvärdet av de två mittersta talen.  
Formulera de krav och acceptanskriterier (AK) som ska gälla för 
funktionen.  


>  
> req_001  
> Shall be able to handle if other than a list of numbers is 
> used as input.
> 
>> ac_001  
>> If other than list of numbers is used as input, shall return 
>> `False`.
>> 1. `int`
>> 2. `float`
>> 3. `str`
>> 4. `tuple`
>> 5. `list including non numbers`
>  


>  
> req_002  
> Shall be able to handle an empty input list.
> 
>> ac_002  
>> If empty list input, return `None`.
>  


>  
> req_003  
> When a list of numbers is used as input, a length less than two 
> shall be handled without median value.
> 
>> ac_003  
>> A correct list input, though with less than two numbers, shall 
>> return `None`.
>> 1. One number only
>  


>  
> req_004  
> Incoming numbers shall be sorted prior to finding the median 
> value.
> 
>> ac_004  
>> It shall not matter in which order the numbers in the list 
>> are sent in, the median shall be returned based on value, not 
>> order in the list.
>  


>  
> req_005  
> A list of numbers with an even number of list elements shall 
> return the average of the two middle numbers.
> 
>> ac_005  
>> If there are an even number of elements, the two middle numbers 
>> shall be added, then divided by two, to find the average of 
>> these values. This average value is to be returned as the 
>> median.
>> 1. Only 2 numbers
>> 2. Use 4 numbers
>> 3. Use 8 numbers
>  


>  
> req_006  
> A list of numbers with an odd number of list elements shall 
> return the middle number as median.
> 
>> ac_006  
>> If there are an odd number of elements, the middle number 
>> shall be returned as the median.
>> 1. Use 3 numbers
>> 2. Use 5 numbers
>> 3. Use 7 numbers
>  


>  
> req_007  
> A list of numbers shall be possible to contain different types 
> and values and still return the median.
> 
>> ac_007  
>> It shall be possible to use rational and irrational numbers, 
>> though imaginary (complex) numbers excluded, when finding the 
>> median.
>> 1. `int`
>> 2. `float`
>> 3. `potitive numbers`
>> 4. `negative numbers`
>  

---

Student == **_gnoff_**  

---

Copyright 2026 gnoff

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");  
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.  
You may obtain a copy of the License at  

     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software  
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,  
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or 
implied.  
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and  
limitations under the License.

---
