
# Veckouppgift 5.2.2  

---

2a.  
Betrakta funktionen `count_words(sentence)`, som tar en sträng och 
returnerar antalet ord.  
Ett ord är en serie tecken som separeras av mellanslag.  
Formulera de krav och acceptanskriterier (AK) som ska gälla för 
funktionen.  


>  
> req_001  
> Shall be able to handle if other than string is used as input.
> 
>> ac_001  
>> If other than string is used as input, shall return `False`.
>> 1. `int`
>> 2. `float`
>> 3. `list`
>  


>  
> req_002  
> Shall be able to handle an empty input string.
> 
>> ac_002  
>> If empty string input, return `None`.
>  


>  
> req_003  
> When a string is used, each non-consecutive "space" shall 
> indicate one more word.
> 
>> ac_003  
>> Count all non-consecutive spaces, each indicating another word.
>> 1. String, no space == one word
>> 2. String, x spaces == x + 1 number of words
>> 3. Several consecutive spaces to be counted as one space
>  


>  
> req_004  
> A leading space shall not be counted.
> 
>> ac_004  
>> A leading space shall be ignored when counting spaces.
>> 1. Leading space, followed by non space == at least one word
>> 2. Leading space(s) only == Same as empty string
>  


>  
> req_005  
> A trailing space shall not be counted.
> 
>> ac_005  
>> A trailing space shall be ignored when counting spaces.
>  

---

Student == **_gnoff_**  

---

Copyright 2026 gnoff

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");  
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.  
You may obtain a copy of the License at  

     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software  
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,  
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or 
implied.  
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and  
limitations under the License.

---
